Title: Availability Zones
table_of_contents: True


# Availability Zones

The concept of a *zone*, and examples of how they can be used, are provided in
the [Concepts and terms][concepts-zones] page. The current page covers how to
use a zone. Specifically, it will show how to:

- Add a zone
- Edit a zone
- Delete a zone
- Assign a node to a zone
- Allocate a node in a zone 

All these actions require administrative privileges.


## Add a zone

To create a zone, navigate to the 'AZs' page of the web UI and use the 'Add
AZ' button.  Simply enter a name for the zone and click 'Add AZ'.

![add zone][img__add-zone]


## Edit a zone

To edit a zone, on the 'AZs' page select a zone and use the 'Edit' button.
Doing so will allow a change to be made to the name and a description for the
zone added or edited.


## Delete a zone

To delete a zone, on the 'AZs' page select a zone and use the 'Delete AZ'
button. Doing so will also move any potential node associations to the default
zone.


## Assign a node to a zone

To assign a node to a zone, from the 'Machines' page, select a node (or multiple
nodes) and choose 'Set zone' using the 'Take action' button. After selecting a
zone hit the 'Set zone...' button to apply the change.

You can also edit a node's 'Configuration' page to change its zone.

Both ways are available in the API as well: edit an individual node through a
PUT request to the node's URI, or set the zone on multiple nodes at once by
calling the `set_zone` operation on the nodes endpoint.


## Allocate a node in a zone

To deploy in a particular zone, call the `acquire` method in the
region-controller API \<region-controller-api\> as before, but pass the `zone`
parameter with the name of the zone. The method will allocate a node in that
zone, or fail with an HTTP 409 ("conflict") error if the zone has no nodes
available that match your request.

Alternatively, you may want to request a node that is *not* in a particular
zone, or one that is not in any of several zones. To do that, specify the
`not_in_zone` parameter to `acquire`. This parameter takes a list of zone
names; the allocated node will not be in any of them. Again, if that leaves no
nodes available that match your request, the call will return a "conflict"
error.

It is possible, though not usually useful, to combine the `zone` and
`not_in_zone` parameters. If your choice for `zone` is also present in
`not_in_zone`, no node will ever match your request. Or if it's not, then the
`not_in_zone` values will not affect the result of the call at all.


<!-- LINKS -->

[concepts-zones]: intro-concepts.md#zones

[img__add-zone]: https://assets.ubuntu.com/v1/f4032f39-manage-zones__2.4_add-zone.png
